For our frontend, we will be using React and Next.js to create the WEB application hosted on Vercel. We will create the charts for the teachers to see using Chart.js and tables using Grid.js. We will use the Auth0 library with OAuth 2.0 to create our sign-in system with Google as our Identity Provider. For our backend, we will use Next.js API routes and MySQL for our database. 

- Product form – we need to create a web application so the TAs and teachers can use this product while school is in session. Having our product be a web application also allows the website to be viewed on multiple devices if necessary. This would also make the application easier for the teachers to access because they won’t have to download things onto their computer.
- We will be using MySQL to handle the school’s data. Since it will be easy to determine relationships between aspects of our data, MySQL is a fitting choice for our application and will allow us to effortlessly add new TAs to the system. We have existing experience using MySQL and this isn’t a large-scale project, so we don’t need PostgreSQL’s advanced features.
- We will be using React to use client-side rendering in order to ensure that our application runs smoothly. Additionally, it will allow us to create reusable components to build a more cohesive UI, and its use of a virtual DOM results in faster rendering, allowing updates on the TA side to be seen on the teacher side all at once.
- We are using Next.js because we would have built-in features and optimizations specifically for web development, for example Server-Side Rendering for dynamic content (for example, when the teacher adds/removes teacher assistants, we want the application to update smoothly)
- Chart.js is a free and simple library for making HTML-based charts which will be useful since our charts will not be too complicated.
- Grid.js is a free and open-source library that works with React. We will use this to create the various tables needed in our application (ex. Tables of teacher assistants for the teacher-side and a timesheet of sign-in/out times and number of hours for teacher assistants)
- For regular design, we will be using CSS.
- Vercel would allow us to deploy our application automatically from our Git repository and it allows first-party support for Next.js
- OAuth will be necessary to create a standard and secure log-in system in order to fulfill the client’s need of TAs not being able to clock in for anyone else.
